Now, one of the things you often hear from people is, “Oh, programming is easy.
Every beginner, everybody can do it.
If you're an 8 year old, if you're a 60 year old, everybody can learn to code and it's super easy.”
And my response to that is that it's really really irresponsible for people to say this because, quite
honestly, programming is hard.
Like, don't fool yourself, and don't listen to people who say like, “Oh yeah,
so easy.”
Yeah maybe like the first part,
like, you know, when you just create like a variable and you add 2 to it.
Yeah that's easy.
But it's hard
like actually being able to master code.
It's not easy.
It's definitely not easy.
And, you know, you can't think like, “Oh, why is it that everybody's saying it's so easy,
but like I'm finding it so hard?
Does that mean I'm dumb?”
It's not true.
It's a hard thing that you're doing.
And just by getting this far you've really shown what you're made of.
And you've already learned so much.
But, you know, the other sort of side where people flip to you as well is like, “Programming’s impossible.
Like you either have to be like a genius or you're not going to get it.”
And that's not true either, because, you know, very often like I look at like, you know, people, students
who say like, “Oh, you know, like you're so great, like, I can't be like you.” But like, there is nothing,
there is nothing that anybody has on you.
Like if you go on YouTube and you look at all the developers who talk about, like, a day in the life of
the developer, or, you know, I am a developer.
Like, if you look at those people, or me, like there is no difference between these developers and these
people who have learned it and you. Like nobody is better than anybody.
It's just the amount of work that somebody has put in.
If you put in more work you end up with more results.
That's all it is.
So what I want to say is that, don't be fooled by these two things people say: programming is easy or
programming is really hard and impossible. They’re both not true. Programming is hard, but it's doable, and
it's doable by you as long as you keep going like you have been.
Then you're going to get there.
And I believe in you.
So keep going and we're going to do great.